# 2023-10-23

## What data do we have?
### Bison Data
- Weight: adult males 460kg - 900kg, adult females 360kg - 540kg
- Eat: Grasses (herbivores) (60kg grasses & 113 liter of water per day)
  -  calves eating 9kg
  -  young adults eating 20-29kg  
- sleep 7–9 hours per night
- Types: American and European
- Behavior: Social animals and often live in large herds. (Mature bulls are found either as solitary animals or in small groups of their own)
- In May and June when bison are very protective of newborn calves.
- Mating season: Begins late July and carries through until early September (During the rut, bison are more aggressive)
- Cows begin breeding at the age of 2 and only have one baby at a time. For males, the prime breeding age is 6–10 years.
- lifespan: About 25 years. The average lifespan for a bison is 10–20 years.
- Migration: Not all bison migrate. Only in dry regions of the prairies were long migrations essential to find new grazing grounds and watering holes. (Only in Alberta does a large bison migration of 250 kilometers take place twice a year.)
- Natural enemies
  - Wolves
- Extra: Have poor eyesight, but they have great senses of hearing


### Elk Data (Wapiti)
- Weight: adult males 227 to 454 kg, adult females 181 to 272 kg
- Diet: Elk are herbivores, primarily feeding on grasses, plants, leaves, bark, shrubs, and twigs. They consume around 9.1 kilograms of vegetation daily, depending on the season.
- Water Consumption: Ranges from 30-75 liters per day, with larger bull elks consuming more water. Elk can go without water for long periods of time, but they will drink when given the opportunity. They typically drink once a day, but during hot weather or when eating dry food, they may drink more frequently.
- Sleep: Elks would have two sleep cycles in a day and may rest from 1 to 4 hours. They sleep in intervals rather than a single cycle. They are mostly sleeping during the day.  After a night of eating, watering, and socializing, the elk will typically retreat to a thickly wooded area to sleep for the day, often near the top of a high ridge. Even if they are awake during the day, they are shy creatures and will remain hidden, emerging only to drink or eat.
- Activity: Elks are most active in the middle of the night or early in the morning when they will be providing for their young, going to the watering hole, or socializing with other elks.
- Summer: During the summer elk tend to stay closer to reliable water sources
- They prefer areas with a mix of open fields for grazing and dense forests for cover and protection
- herbivores: grasses, plants, leaves, and bark, shrubs and twigs (if food is scarce)
- Behavior: They form herds, typically led by a dominant cow, especially during the mating season. Bulls may form small groups or travel alone.
- an herd is led by an elk cow
- bulls form small groups and may even travel alone
- Elk prefer open woodlands and avoid dense unbroken forests
- Reproduction: Mating occurs in the fall, with a gestation period of about 240 to 262 days. Calves are born in the spring and are reproductively mature at 16 months.
- Lifespan: In the wild, elks have an average lifespan of around 20+ years, with an average of 26.8 years.


### Moose Data
- elk in Europe
- Weight: Adult males range from 380 to 720 kg, while adult females weigh between 270 to 360 kg.
- Diet: Herbivores feeding on grass, leaves, twigs, willow, birch, maple shoots, and aquatic plants. They consume around 18-27 kg of food per day.
- Water Consumption: Moose have relatively high water needs, consuming approximately 529 liters (140 gallons) of water per day, primarily due to their diet and size. They often seek aquatic vegetation and rely on water sources for hydration.
- Sleep: Moose sleep intermittently, usually in short periods throughout the day and night. They are more active during dawn and dusk. Exact sleep duration varies, and they rest when they feel secure.
- Behavior: They are mostly solitary animals, except during the mating season and when raising their calves. During winter, moose may form small groups to conserve heat.
- Reproduction: Pregnancy lasts about 7 months, giving birth to one or two calves in late spring or early summer.
- Lifespan: Typically 15-25 years in the wild.
- live alone except for winter when they sometimes form small groups
- natural enemies
  - siberian tiger
  - wolves


## What data do we need?
- population of each species
- specific info on species: life span, eating habits, herd behavior
- Höhendaten
- Niederschlag
- Temperaturen

## TASK LIST
- [ ] be able to run the elephant simulation
- [ ] analyze the output of elephant simulation
- [ ] fetch geographical data
- [ ] model Elk, Bison and Moose
- [ ] outline of animal classes

digital vegetation model -> haben wir nicht -> ndvi (Biomasse)

